Kaleido docs updates for v1 (#5111)
plotly/plotly.py: doc/python/static-image-generation-migration.md

Reviewer: Should link to the Chrome setup instructions from this doc, since that's one of the major differences between Kaleido v0 and v1.

    pygments_lexer: ipython3
    version: 3.11.10
  plotly:
    description: Details about changes to static image generation in Plotly.py 6.1.
    display_as: file_settings
    language: python
    layout: base
    name: Static Image Generation Changes in Plotly.py 6.1
    order: 40
    page_type: u-guide
    permalink: python/static-image-generation-changes/
    thumbnail: thumbnail/static-image-export.png
---

<!-- #region -->
# Static Image Generation Changes in Plotly.py 6.1

Plotly.py 6.1 introduces support for Kaleido v1, which [improves static image generation](https://plotly.com/blog/kaleido-the-next-generation/) for Plotly figures.

While adding support for Kaleido v1, we are deprecating support for earlier versions of Kaleido and support for Orca, another static image generation library. Support for earlier verisons of Kaleido and Orca will be removed after September 2025, and we recommend updating to the latest Kaleido. This page documents how to migrate to Kaleido v1 and outlines any changes in functionality.

To migrate from either Orca or Kaleido v0, first install the latest Kaleido with:

```bash
pip install -U kaleido
```

## Engine Parameter

> The `engine` parameter on static image export methods and functions is deprecated with this Plotly.py release and will be removed after September 2025. You'll need to update your code to remove references to this parameter. For example, `fig.to_image(format="png", engine="orca")` or `fig.to_image(format="png", engine="kaleido")` needs to be updated to `fig.to_image(format="png")`. This change applies to: `fig.to_image`, `fig.write_image`, `plotly.io.to_image`, and `plotly.io.write_image`.

Reviewer: Maybe add an additional sentence here clarifying which engine is used when the 'engine' parameter is not provided:

- If Kaleido is installed, Kaleido is used
- Otherwise:
  - Currently: If Orca is installed, Orca is used (with a deprecation warning).
  -  Once Orca support is dropped, an error will be raised.

Author: I added a note that it will use Kaleido after the engine parameter is removed if Kaleido is installed and otherwise will raise an error.

---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    notebook_metadata_filter: all
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.16.4
  kernelspec:
    display_name: Python 3 (ipykernel)
    language: python
    name: python3
  language_info:
    codemirror_mode:
      name: ipython
      version: 3
    file_extension: .py
    mimetype: text/x-python
    name: python
    nbconvert_exporter: python
    pygments_lexer: ipython3
    version: 3.11.10
  plotly:
    description: Details about changes to static image generation in Plotly.py 6.1.
    display_as: file_settings
    language: python
    layout: base
    name: Static Image Generation Changes in Plotly.py 6.1
    order: 40
    page_type: u-guide
    permalink: python/static-image-generation-changes/
    thumbnail: thumbnail/static-image-export.png
---

<!-- #region -->
# Static Image Generation Changes in Plotly.py 6.1

Plotly.py 6.1 introduces support for Kaleido v1, which [improves static image generation](https://plotly.com/blog/kaleido-the-next-generation/) for Plotly figures.

> While adding support for Kaleido v1, we are deprecating support for earlier versions of Kaleido and support for Orca, another static image generation library. Support for earlier verisons of Kaleido and Orca will be removed after September 2025, and we recommend updating to the latest Kaleido. This page documents how to migrate to Kaleido v1 and outlines any changes in functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While adding support for Kaleido v1, we are deprecating support for earlier versions of Kaleido and support for [Orca](/python/orca-management/). Support for Orca and earlier versions of Kaleido will be removed after September 2025, and we recommend updating to the latest Kaleido. This page documents how to migrate your Plotly code to Kaleido v1 and outlines the changes in functionality.
```

To migrate from either Orca or Kaleido v0, first install the latest Kaleido with:

```bash

> pip install -U kaleido

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install --upgrade kaleido
```

Author: Updated

```

## Engine Parameter

> The `engine` parameter on static image export methods and functions is deprecated in Plotly.py 6.1 and will be removed after September 2025. Once the `engine` parameter is removed, static image generation will use `Kaleido` if it's installed or raise an error if it isn't.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `engine` parameter on static image export methods and functions is deprecated in Plotly.py 6.1 and will be removed after September 2025. Once the `engine` parameter is removed, static image generation will use Kaleido v1 if it's installed, or raise an error if it isn't.
```

> The `engine` parameter on static image export methods and functions is deprecated with this Plotly.py release and will be removed after September 2025. Once the `engine` parameter is removed, static image generation will use `Kaleido` if it's installed or raise an error if it isn't.

Reviewer 2: rather than `this Plotly.py release` can/should we say "in Plotly.py 6.1"?

> The `engine` parameter on static image export methods and functions is deprecated with this Plotly.py release and will be removed after September 2025. Once the `engine` parameter is removed, static image generation will use `Kaleido` if it's installed or raise an error if it isn't.

Author: ```suggestion
The `engine` parameter on static image export methods and functions is deprecated in Plotly.py 6.1 and will be removed after September 2025. Once the `engine` parameter is removed, static image generation will use `Kaleido` if it's installed or raise an error if it isn't.
```

You'll need to update your code to remove references to `engine`. For example, `fig.to_image(format="png", engine="orca")` or `fig.to_image(format="png", engine="kaleido")` needs to be updated to `fig.to_image(format="png")`. This change applies to: `fig.to_image`, `fig.write_image`, `plotly.io.to_image`, and `plotly.io.write_image`.

## EPS Format

> The `eps` format is no longer supported in Kaleido v1. If your existing code sets `format=eps`, you'll need to update it to use another format, for example `pdf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `eps` format is no longer supported in Kaleido v1. If your existing code sets `format="eps"`, you'll need to update it to use another format, for example `pdf`.
```

## Config Settings

Accessing Kaleido defaults and config settings via `plotly.io.kaleido.scope` is now deprecated and will be removed after September 2025. You'll need to update any code that uses `plotly.io.kaleido.scope` to instead use `plotly.io.defaults`. For example, to set the `default_format` to "jpeg":

~~~python
import plotly.io as pio
pio.defaults.default_format = "jpeg"
~~~

> The `mapbox_access_token` config setting is not available on `plotly.io.defaults` because Mapbox maps are deprecated and will be removed in future version of Plotly.py. See [MapLibre Migration ](https://plotly.com/python/mapbox-to-maplibre/) for more details.

Author: ```suggestion
The `mapbox_access_token` config setting is not available on `plotly.io.defaults` because Mapbox maps are deprecated and will be removed in a future version of Plotly.py. See [MapLibre Migration ](https://plotly.com/python/mapbox-to-maplibre/) for more details.
```
